Unit Two  Flight Connection and Customs  转机和通关
Section A   Some Tips for Tight Airport Connections紧密联程转机的十个技巧
Directions:  In this section, you will hear a passage about ten tips for tight airport connections. Write down the ten tips based on what you hear. You can read the list of words at the back of the unit, which will give you some help with the exercise.
Airports are notorious labyrinths that many travelers are keen to avoid. Choose a connection with plenty of time so you won’t have to make an Olympic sprint through the maze. If you’ve already booked a tight connection, learn how to make the transfer as smooth（光滑的）as possible. Short airport connections can be a blessing, but only if you actually make your flight. Follow these tips to avoid being stranded at the gate. Because when it comes to tight（紧密的） connections, every second counts.
机场是许多游客们极力避免去的，臭名昭著的迷宫般之地。选择有充足时间的联程转机（机场连接），这样你就不需要用奥运冲刺般的速度通过这一错综复杂的“迷宫”。如果你早已经预定了一个紧密的联程转机，应该学会如何让转机变得尽可能顺畅。短暂的联程转机可能是一个祝福，但只有当你真正起飞之后才算。遵循以下这些提示，以避免被搁置（滞留）在登机口。因为当涉及到紧密的联程转机时，每一秒都是珍贵的（分秒必争）。
Choose an aisle seat near the front  选择机舱前部靠走道的座位
If you know you’re facing a tight connection and you’ve booked your flight in advance, reserve an aisle seat toward the front of the plane. Even if it costs a little extra, it’s cheaper than missing your flight. If you can’t get the seat you want online, skip(跳过;略过) the automated ticket kiosk and instead check in at the counter, where you can explain your situation and ask to be seated near the front. The earlier you arrive at the airport, the more likely this strategy will have a positive outcome.
如果你知道联程转机（转机行程）紧张，而且你已预先订好了航班，请在机舱前部预定靠走道的座位 。即使费用贵了一点，但也比错过你的航班要便宜一些。如果你无法在网络上买到你想要的座位，也请忽略自动售票亭，而是到登机柜台去办理登机手续，在那里你可以解释说明你的情况，并要求坐在前面。你到达机场的时间越早（寻求帮助的时间越多），这个策略就越有可能产生积极的结果。
Plead your case with the flight attendant（向乘务员提出恳求）
If checking in at the ticket counter doesn’t get you a seat toward the front, plead your case on the plane. Flight attendants tend to be more sympathetic about missed connections and will often make a concerted effort to help you avoid one. Timing is everything, so ask once all passengers are seated and when your flight attendant isn’t too busy. If seats toward the front of the plane are available, your flight attendant should be able to accommodate your request so that you are one of the first to deplane.
如果在售票柜台办理登机手续都没能订到靠前的座位，请在飞机上提出请求。乘务员往往对错过转机的情况比较同情，经常会通力合作来帮助你避免。时机就是一切，所以一旦所有乘客都就坐了，而且乘务员不是太忙的话，询问一下。如果在飞机前部的座位是空着的，那么你的乘务员应该能够满足你的要求，以便您是第一批下飞机的人。
Learn the lay of the land（了解机场地形布局）
Download or print a map of your connecting airport that shows all of the terminals（航站楼，终端） so you know the lay of the land before you arrive. Airport maps can also often be found in the plane’s seatback magazines. Look for the airport’s baggage carousels if you’ve checked a bag. And if this connecting airport is your first entry point on an international trip, map out customs （海关）and immigration areas as well. Review the map as your flight descends, and then confirm your next flight’s gate on the flight monitor（飞行监测器）.
下载或打印一份你的转机机场地图，上面显示有所有的航站楼布局，这样在抵达之前，你就已经了解了机场的地形布局。机场地图经常也可以在飞机的座椅靠背杂志中找到。如果你已经托运了行李，请到机场的行李传送带（行李转盘）去找。如果这个联程中转机场是您在国际旅行中的第一个入口点，那么也要在地图上标出海关和出入境检查区。当飞机下降的时候，查看该地图，然后在飞行监测器上确认您的下一个航班的登机口。
Don’t check a bag（勿托运行李）
Make your life easier by keeping to the essentials for your travel wardrobe. By only packing a carry-on, you’ll skip the never-ending conveyor-belt loop. Plus, you’ll avoid potentially losing your checked bag altogether.
坚持您的旅行衣柜里只携带生活必需品，将使您的生活更加轻松。只打包一个随身携带的小箱子，将使您跳过永不停歇的行李传送带循环。另外，您也将避免完全丢失您的托运行李的可能性。
5.Sleep at the airport（在机场过夜）
On short overnight connections, don’t risk missing your next flight by heading to an airport hotel. Instead, look into by-the-hour sleep pods（睡眠舱） at select airports or buy a day pass to an airport lounge. Options for safely sleeping at the airport are only as limited as your imagination.
在短暂的夜间转机时，请不要冒错过你的下一个航班的风险前往机场酒店过夜。相反，在高级机场，查看有没有按小时收费的睡眠舱或购买一张一日通行证去机场休息室休息。在机场能够安全睡眠的选择方式十分有限。
6.Make every second count（充分利用每一秒；让每一秒都有意义）
Pack a protein bar or another easily portable snack so you don’t have to waste time in the terminal searching for food. Similarly, squeeze into（挤进去） the airplane bathroom just before the plane begins its descent（下降） so that you can sprint to your next gate with an empty bladder（空膀胱）.
包里备好一个蛋白质能量棒或一个容易携带的小点心，这样你不必浪费时间在机场四处寻找食物。同样地，在飞机开始下降之前，挤入飞机洗手间上个厕所，这样您不用憋尿就可以冲刺跑到下一个登机口了。（每一秒都很重要！）
7.Go to the front of the line（去警戒线的前面）
Apply to a preclearance security service（境外入境检查安全服务） such as CLEAR（通关；警报解除） so you can head to the front of the security line(警戒线). You have to pass the screening process（筛查程序）, which includes supplying biometrics samples and registering in person, but you stand to save time at all security lines where the program is accepted. Security-clearance programs（安检程序）are available at select US and international airports.
申请一个类似“通关；警报解除”这样的境外入境检查安全服务，这样您就可以直接前往警戒线的前面。您还得通过筛查程序，这包括提供生物识别样本和本人亲自登记，但在接受项目检查的所有警戒线区域，您都可以节省时间。美国的高级机场和国际机场都要进行安检程序。
Give yourself a fighting chance（给自己一次战斗的机会）
As a rule of thumb（经验）, on domestic routes, you need a minimum of 45 minutes between flights. That’s because you don’t have to go through security, customs, and immigration. But the 45-minute rule only applies under ideal circumstances; if your connection takes you to a notoriously troublesome airport during the winter months, try for a flight with at least a 75-minute layover. Not even these tips can save you if you don’t give yourself at least some time between flights.
根据经验（一般来说），在国内航线上，航班之间起码需要45分钟的时间。那是因为你不必通过安检，海关和出入境检查处。但“45分钟”规则只适用于理想状况下，如果在冬季期间，您的飞机连接将您带到了一个臭名昭著麻烦不断的机场，那么您可以尝试搭乘至少需要75分钟中途停留的航班。如果你在航班之间，没有给自己预留至少一段时间的话，那么即使有这些技巧提示也救不了你。
International flights are a whole different animal. You’ll probably have to check in at customs and immigration after your initial disembarkation（入境；登陆）, even if you’re not yet in your final destination. Before booking, verify that you’ll have a layover at least two hours in order to go through the obligatory airport transactions. Give yourself even more time if you’ve checked a bag that needs to be rechecked post-customs.
国际航班是一个完全不同的“动物”（航班）。即使您尚未到达您的最终目的地，您很可能还需要在首次入境后，在海关和出入境检查处办理登机手续。在预订机票之前，确定您将至少有两个小时的停留时间，以便通过各种强制性的机场事务。如果您托运了行李，还需要在海关检查后重新检查托运您的行李，请给自己预留更多的时间。
9.Don’t lollygag（不要四处闲逛）
Missing a connecting flight is easier than you think. Gate doors typically close 10 to 30 minutes prior to a flight’s scheduled departure. Once closed, the airplane door won’t open to board a late passenger. So, head to your gate at boarding time（登机时间） and not departure time（出发时间）. As obvious as that sounds, we’ve known people to miss flights because they didn’t properly differentiate（区分） between the two.
错过联程航班比你想象中的要容易得多。登机口的门通常在航班预定起飞前10到30分钟左右关闭。一旦关闭，飞机门将不会为任何一位迟到的乘客打开。所以，请在登机时间而不是出发时间前往登机口。听上去很明显，我们知道有些人错过了航班，是因为他们没有正确区分这两个概念。

Get on the phone immediately（立即取得电话联系）
If the flight has already taken off without you or you know you won’t make it to the gate on time, get on the phone with the airline immediately. They should reschedule you on the next flight at no cost if the connection time was unreasonably brief. Ask for compensation, such as a flight voucher（飞行代金券）, if you feel you’ve missed your connecting flight through no fault of your own.
如果你错过航班，飞机已经起飞了，或者您知道您不能按时到达登机口，请立即与航空公司取得联系。如果联程时间不合理，他们应该会免费重新安排您搭乘下一个航班。假如你觉得自己无过失，却已错过了你的联程转机航班，请索要赔偿，比如飞行代金券。

Section C   Airport Immigration and Customs（机场出入境检查和海关）
Directions:  In this section, there is a short passage with some words missing. The passage will be read three times. You are required to put the missing words in the order of the numbered blanks according to what you hear.
When you enter a different country from which your flight departed you will have to go through the immigration process. Each country will have its own agency that administers this inspection  process. For the vast majority of passengers the immigration process only takes a few minutes though lines to take your turn can get long if many international flights arrive around the same time.
从你的航班出发之后，进入一个完全不同的国家时，你将不得不通过出入境检查流程。每个国家都有自己的机构负责管理这个（出入境）检查过程。对于绝大多数乘客来说，出入境检查流程只需要几分钟的时间。但是如果有许多国际航班在同一时间到达的话，那么轮到你排队的时间可能会变很长。
Upon arrival and entrance into the immigration area passengers are split into（分成） multiple lines. There is generally a line for host country nationals, sometimes a line for citizens of the region, and non-immigrant visitors. Be sure to enter the correct line to avoid confusion and wasting your time and the time of the officials. When going through immigration in a country in which you are not a host-country national, you will likely go through the non-immigrant visitor line.
一经抵达，进入出入境检查区后，乘客分成多个行列。通常东道国国民（持有该国护照的人）有一条专门行列，有时为某地区公民（例如欧盟等）和非移民游客提供一条专用行列。请务必排到正确的行列，以避免发生混淆，浪费你自己和出入境检查官的时间。如果你是非东道国国民，要通过该国出入境检查处时，你可能要通过非移民游客的行列。

Officials will review your required passenger travel documents. Officials will likely ask you questions. As long as you are honest and pay attention to instructions, there will be nothing to worry about. Officials will stamp your passport once you are approved and granted admission.
出入境检查官将审查您所需的乘客旅行证件（护照，签证，绿卡，登机卡（由乘务员在航班期间提供），免疫接种文件，确认或者支持信等）。出入境检查官可能会问你几个问题（过程或官员认为是必要的），只要你诚实作答，注意操作指示，就没什么担心的。 一旦你被批准并获准入境，出入境检查官会给你的护照盖个章。
After clearing immigration and collecting you baggage, you will need to proceed through the customs area before being allowed to exit the airport. Customs is the authority in the respective country you enter that is responsible for controlling the flow of goods, including animals, transports, foods, personal effects, and hazardous items, into and out of a country. Just as each country has an agency that facilitates the immigration process, the country you enter will have its own laws and regulations regarding the import and export of goods into and out of a country. It is the responsibility of the respective customs agency to enforce these policies.
通过入境检查处后，领取你的行李，你还需要通过海关区方能被允许离开机场。海关是您进入的各个国家里，专门负责控制货物流量，包括动物﹑交通工具﹑食品﹑个人物品和危险品等货物，进出一个国家的主管机构。正如每个国家都有一个促进移民入境流程的机构一样，你所进入的国家也会有自己关于货物进出口进出该国的法律法规。各个海关机构都有执行这些政策的责任。
While on your flight your flight attendant will distribute a Customs Declaration Form. Most forms ask the point of exit and entry of your flight, your flight number, what goods you may be bringing into the country. Custom officials may or may not inspect your luggage. If they do check your bags and find restricted items, you may be asked to pay duty and/or fines. This is why it is critical to declare items as asked and required.
当您在航班上时，您的空中乘务员将分发一份海关申报单。大多数表格都会询问你的航班的出入境口岸，你的航班号码，你可能携带什么货物到该国（表格可能会列出各个国家的违禁物品）。海关官员可能会或也可能不会检查您的行李。如果他们检查您的行李并发现有受限制物品，您可能会被要求缴纳关税和/或罚款。这就是为什么按要求和请求申报物品至关重要的原因了。
Each country and airport will have varying processes and requirements for customs and rules around declaration of items. It is encouraged to review the specific country and airport of entry for specific customs guidelines.
每个国家和机场，围绕物品申报的海关和规则，都有各种不同的流程和要求。值得鼓励的是，要根据具体海关条例，来检查不同国家和机场的出入境要求。


Unit Three  Bank Business 银行业务
Section A General Introduction to Bank 银行简介
Directions:  In this section, you will hear a short passage about banks. Write down the functions of banks based on what you hear. You can read the list of words at the back of the unit, which will give you some help with the exercise.
Banks are financial institutions that accept deposits and make loans. Lending activities can be performed either directly or indirectly through capital markets. Banks play an important role in the financial system and the economy. Banks operate by borrowing funds — usually by accepting deposits or by borrowing in the money markets. Banks borrow from individuals, businesses, financial institutions, and governments with surplus funds (savings). They then use those deposits and borrowed funds (liabilities of the bank) to make loans or to purchase securities (assets of the bank).    
Banks make these loans to businesses, other financial institutions, individuals, and governments (that need the funds for investments or other purposes).  Interest rates provide the price signals for borrowers, lenders, and banks.  Through the process of taking deposits, making loans, and responding to interest rate signals, the banking system helps channel funds from savers to borrowers in an efficient manner. In this way, banks are the financial intermediaries which can help promote a more efficient and dynamic economy.
银行是接受存款和贷款的金融机构。放贷业务可以直接或间接通过资本市场进行。银行在金融体系和经济中发挥着重要作用。银行通过借款（借用资金）运作----通常是通过接受存款或在（货币）金融市场借款运作。银行从个人、企业、金融机构和拥有过剩基金（存款；储蓄金）的政府借款。然后，他们利用这些存款和借入资金（银行负债）进行贷款或购买证券（银行资产）。       
银行向企业、其他金融机构、个人和政府提供贷款（需要用于投资或其他目的的资金）。利率为借款人、贷方和银行提供了价格信号。通过收取存款、发放贷款和对利率信号做出反应的过程，银行系统有效地帮助从储户向借款方筹措资金。所以（这样；用这种方法），银行其实，就是能够更有效更有活力地帮助促进经济生活的金融中介机构。
The main functions of banks are as follows. 
银行的主要职能如下:
Accepting deposits  接受存款
The most important function of banks is to accept deposits from the public. Various sections of society, according to their needs and economic condition, deposit their savings with the banks. For example, fixed and low income group people deposit their savings in small amounts for the custody of money. On the other hand, traders and businessmen deposit their savings in the banks for the convenience of payment.
银行最重要的职能是接受公众存款。社会各阶层根据自己的需求和经济状况，将积蓄（金）存入银行。例如，固定低收入群体把他们的少量存款存入银行方便保管。另一方面，商人和生意人把存款存入银行以便于支付。
Making loans发放贷款
The second important function of banks is to advance loans to its customers.   Banks charge interest from the borrowers and this is the main source of their income.   Modern banks give mostly secured loans for productive purposes.   In other words, at the time of advancing loans, they demand proper security or collateral. Generally, the value of security or collateral is equal to the amount of loan. This is done mainly with a view to recover the loan money by selling the security in the event of non-refund of the loan.  Also, banks advance loans to its customers up to a certain amount through overdrafts, if there are no deposits in the current account.   For this, banks demand a security from the customers and charge very high rate of interest.
银行的第二个重要职能是向客户提供贷款。银行向借款人收取利息，这是银行收入的主要来源。现代银行主要提供有担保贷款用于生产目的。  换言之，在贷款的时候，他们需要适当的担保或抵押品。一般而言，抵押品或抵押品的价值等于贷款金额。这主要是由于考虑到在无法偿还贷款的情况下要通过出售抵押品来收回贷款。 同时，如果当前（活期）账户中没有存款，银行会以最高至一定金额的透支形式，预付贷款给客户。为此，银行要求客户提供担保抵押品，并且收取非常高的利率。
Issuing banknotes发行纸币
A banknote (often known as a bill paper money or simply a note) is a type of negotiable instrument known as a promissory note, made by a bank, payable to the bearer on demand. Banknotes were originally issued by commercial banks. These commercial banknotes only traded at face value in the market served by the issuing bank.   Commercial banknotes have primarily been replaced by national banknotes issued by central banks.
钞票（通常称为纸币或纸币）是一种被称作期票的，由银行出具，由持票人支付给持票人，见票即付的可流通工具。纸币最初是由商业银行发行的。这些商业钞票只在开证行服务的市场上以面值交易。商业票据已主要被由中央银行发行的国家纸币所取代。
Besides the main functions mentioned above, banks perform many other functions of general utility which are as follows： 除了上述的主要功能外，银行还履行许多其他一般用途的职能，如下所示：
(1)Banks make arrangement of lockers for the safe custody of valuable assets of their customers such as gold, silver, legal documents, etc.
银行提供储物柜保管服务，替客户保管有价值资产如：黄金、白银、法律文件等等。
(2)Banks give reference for their customers.
银行为客户提供参考意见。
(3)Banks collect necessary and useful statistics relating to trade and industry.
银行收集有关贸易和工业的必要有用的统计数据。
(4)For facilitating foreign trade, banks undertake to sell and purchase foreign exchange.
为促进对外贸易，银行从事买卖外汇业务。
（5）Banks advise their clients relating to investment decisions as specialists.
银行向客户提供与投资决策有关的专家意见。
(5)Banks issue letters of credit (L/C).
银行开立信用证（L/C）。
(6)During natural calamities, banks are highly useful in mobilizing funds and donations.
在自然灾害期间，银行在筹集资金和捐款方面非常有用。
(7)Banks provide loans for consumer durables like house, car, etc.
银行对耐用消费品如房子，汽车等提供贷款。
Banks have been defined as dealers in debts. A deposit is a debt which the bank owes to the depositor; a banknote is a sort of promissory note — an acknowledgement of the issuing bank’s debt to whomever may be the bearer of it; by means of loans and overdraft a bank creates debt to itself.
银行被定义为债务交易商。存款是银行欠存款人的一种债务(银行向存款人欠钱)；钞票是一种期票，是对开证行债务的确认，不管谁是它的持有人，通过贷款和透支，银行会自行产生债务(银行欠自己的钱)。

Section C   The Services of a Bank
Directions:  In this section, there is a short passage with some words missing. The passage will be read three times. You are required to put the missing words in the order of the numbered blanks according to what you hear.
Banks were developed to keep people’s money safe and to make it  available  when they needed it.  Since money was invented, people have been borrowing and lending it.
银行的发展是为了保证人们的资金安全，并在需要时提供资金。自从货币发明以来，人们一直在借贷金钱。
A modern bank accepts people’s money for safe-keeping. It also lends money and offers many other services. The  experience  of a businessman will show some of these. James Jones has a furniture store and buys his goods from different parts of the country. It isn’t convenient for him to send money through the mail, so he goes to the bank and opens a  checking  account. He puts his money in the bank regularly, and the bank keeps it until he writes checks for that amount.   When Mr.Jones orders furniture from the Modern Furniture Company in another city, he simply writes a check. This check is as good as money to the owner of the company. The owner can take it to the bank and  cash  it, that is, he can get money for it.
现代银行接受人们为了安全保管的存款。它还有贷款和提供许多其他服务的功能。有一位商人的经历将展示其中一些银行功能：詹姆斯·琼斯有一个家具店，他从全国各地购买自己的货物。由于对于他，通过邮局寄钱不方便，所以他去银行开了一个支票帐户。他定期把钱放在银行里，银行保管这笔钱，直到他为这个金额开支票为止。当琼斯先生在另一个城市的现代家具公司订购家具时，他只需简单开一张支票。这张支票对公司的老板来说就跟真正的货币一样。该老板可以拿着支票到银行去兑现，也就是说，他凭支票取钱。
Now and then Mr.Jones deposits money in a savings  account at the bank. The bank then uses his money and pays him a certain percentage on each dollar every year. For example, if he deposits $1,000 and the bank pays him 4 percents, he will have earned $40 by the end of the year. This payment is called  interest.
琼斯先生不时地把钱存入银行的储蓄账户。然后，银行用了他的钱，每年付给他一定百分比（比率）的钱。例如，如果他存款1000美元，银行付给他百分之4的钱，他将在年底前赚到40美元。这笔费用称为利息。
Mr.Jones can usually borrow from the bank if he needs money.  He can  arrange  for a bank loan at the loan department. If the bank lends him money, he must pay interest for its use. Sometimes, instead of putting his money in a savings account, Mr.Jones wants to  invest  it in some business firm, and he may ask the investment department of his bank for advice.
如果琼斯先生需要钱，他通常可以向银行借钱。他可以在贷款部门安排一笔银行贷款。如果银行借给他钱，他必须支付利息。有时，琼斯先生不想把钱存进他的储蓄账户，而是想把钱投资于某商业													【】公司，同时他可以向银行的投资部门征求投资建议。
Mr.Jones gets still other services from the bank. When he travels, he buys  traveler’s  checks from the bank instead of carrying money with him. And he can rent a safe-deposit box in the bank for his  valuable papers and articles.
琼斯先生还得到银行的其他服务。当他旅行时，他从银行购买旅行支票，而不是随身携带现金。他可以在银行里租一个保险箱，存放贵重文书和物品。
It’s hard to imagine that people could do business without services of a bank.
很难想象，如果没有银行的服务，人们如何做生意。





Unit Four  House Renting 租房
Section A  Some Tips for House Renting
Directions:  In this section, you will hear a passage about ten tips for renting a house or flat abroad. Write down the ten tips based on what you hear. You can read the list of words at the back of the unit, which will give you some help with the exercise.
To live and work abroad, you may be faced with or partially involved in（涉及） house or office renting. If you don’t have an overseas rental experience, like many firsts in life, your first rental lease can be a super demanding task. But you are not alone. Here are the top ten tips covering when and where to start, tenants’ rights, dealing with landlords, choosing your flatmates, protecting your deposit（押金）, etc.
    在国外工作和生活，你可能要面对或部分参与租赁房屋或租赁办公室事务中来。如果你没有过在国外租房的经历，那么你的首次租赁合同(或签署第一份租约)，会像人生中的许多第一次一样，可能是一项相当费力的任务。 但是你不会孤单的，这里有10大要诀（妙招），涉及从何时何地开始，租客权利，与房东打交道，选择室友，以及如何保护你的押金等等。
Do your research early尽早做调查工作
Spend plenty of time investigating the area. The advantage of renting is that you can move when your tenancy is up, but don’t think too short-term(短期)—make sure this is the area you want to live in. If you have children, make sure you look into the local schools and not just the nearest one—you may not be guaranteed a place. The best way to get a feel for（对……有感受; 切身体会；熟悉） an area is to visit and have a wander around on foot.   If you’re not sure where to start, your first goal should be to nail down（确定；明确） your destination and the approximate timing of your trip.
多花点时间调查该地区。租房的好处是，你可以在你的租期满了以后搬家，但不要觉得租房是短期的-----确保这是你真正想住的地方。如果你有孩子，务必要去查看当地的学校，而不仅仅是走访最近的一所学校---你可能无法保证是某一地方。熟悉一个地方最好的办法是亲自到其周边实地走访一下。如果你不确定从哪里开始，你的第一个目标应该是确定你的目的地以及走一趟需要的大概时间。

Consult multiple sources 咨询多方消息来源
It’s very important to consult a variety of sources when hunting an ideal house. By shopping around and talking to many different people, you’ll not only learn more about the area you are visiting, you may also find yourself a better deal. Leave your options open by talking to several real estate agents and consulting multiple websites.
在寻找理想房源时，咨询各种各样的信息来源是非常重要的。通过逛商店，及与形形色色的人交谈，你不仅能获知更多关于你正在参观之地的信息，也可能会给自己找到一笔更好的交易（房源）。通过与一些房地产经纪人(房产中介)交谈，和咨询多个网站，让自己保留选择余地。
Take your time viewing properties 花时间看房子 (地产或置业性能）
Looking around rental properties can be a little bit time-consuming but worthwhile. Check everything carefully. Does it have central heating, a washing machine, dishwasher, decent fridge and freezer? What are the showers like? Are the windows in good condition? These can all be forgotten in the heat of the moment(头脑发热的时候；一时激动). Make a checklist to take with you when viewing properties you really like.
四处游览(察看)租赁的房子，可能会耗点儿时间，但是很值得。仔细检查一切设施。检查看有没有中央暖气、洗衣机、洗碗机、像样的冰箱和冰柜? 淋浴怎么样的?窗户状况良好吗?这些在头脑发热的时候都可能被忘记。当你去查看那些你确实喜欢的房子时，请列一份清单并随身携带以备用。
Haggle over price 讨价还价
Whether you are dealing with an agent or a landlord, it’s important to remember you hold the upper hand(优势上风). They want to rent out the property and if it is empty when you view they will be eager to get someone in as soon as possible. Make an offer below the rent being asked for, typically it is possible to get $20 per month or $5 per week discount, or maybe more. It doesn’t sound like much but every coin saved is another one in your pocket
无论是和中介还是和房东讨价还价，记住你是占优势(占上风)的一方，是很重要的。他们想要把房子租出去。当你看房时，如果房子是空着的，他们会迫不及待地想让人尽快入住。请报一个低于索求租金的报价，通常有可能获得每月20美元或每周5美元的折扣，或者更多折扣。这听起来不太多，但是，节省下来的每一枚硬币都是你口袋里另一枚硬币（都是你赚的钱）。

Choose flatmates carefully慎选合租室友
If you are looking at renting with others, choose who you live with carefully. It’s unlikely most people will end up with a celebrity（名人，名声） housemate, good or bad, but little things can make the difference between harmony and torment. Money is the most common cause of dispute. Make sure you work out（制定出，计算） your budget and how bills will be paid. Use professional household budget calculator to help tot up（合计） the costs and cut your bills(削减...账单) with your flatmates sensibly(明智地).
如果你想和别人一起租房，那就仔细选择和你同住的人。大多数人不太可能会有一个名人室友，好或坏，但小事可能会带来和谐与痛苦之间的天壤之别（or两种不同后果）。金钱是引起争论的最常见原因。确保你计算出你的预算和账单将如何支付。使用专业的家用预算计算器来帮助你计算费用，并合理地分割你和合租室友的账单。

Set up direct debits or payments properly 建立合适的直接借记或付款方式
Many rental offices will insist on tenants(租户) using a direct debit payment system(借记卡付款系统) for rent payments. But even if it is not mandated(命令；授权；指令), offer it as part of your application.   Being a tenant who doesn't pay on time is the best way to ensure your landlord or agent won't go out of their way(费尽心思；不嫌麻烦) to help you.  Getting all the finances sorted properly(让所有资金都正确合理分类) and having the deposit, first month's rent and subsequent rent arrive on time will mean that you are immediately onside with(和...站在一边) the people you need to call if the plumbing goes wrong or you want a new oven.
许多租赁公司会要求租户使用直接的借记卡付款系统来付租金。但即使没有强制命令(或执行)，也要把它作为你租房申请的一部分去做。要确保你的房东或中介不会费心去帮助你的最佳办法，就是成为一个不按时付房租的人（或”成为一个不按时付房租的人，是让你的房东或中介不想特别费心帮助你的最好方法”）。让所有资金都正确分类，将押金﹑首月房租和随后房租 准时缴付到账，将意味着，当你的水管出现问题或者你想要一个新烤箱时，你会立刻获得你需要打电话求助之人(尤指房东)的力挺了。 
Read the whole contract阅读整个合同
It’s important to get checklist of what’s included in the rental(租赁;租金) before signing the contract. Make sure you understand who pays for：utility bills, Internet, phone service, cable, cleaning/housekeeping, propane/gas, etc. Keep in mind that the costs involved in air conditioning or heating can be sizable（相当可观的）, so be sure to factor(把...作为因素计入)  those into your budget if the owner has not already included them in the rent. You should also be aware of the landlord’s policies regarding pets and subleasing(转租).
在签订合同之前，拿到房屋租赁中包含有哪些内容的清单，很重要。确保你清楚由谁来支付: 水电物业费账单﹑网络费﹑电话服务费﹑有线电视费、清洁/家政服务费、丙烷/天然气费用,等等。  记住，空调或取暖的费用是相当高的，所以，如果房主没有把它们算在房租内的话，你要记得把这些因素列入到你的预算当中。   你还应该了解房东关于养宠物和转租方面的规定。
Ask about the housekeeping situation询问关于家政的情况
Some rentals have a cleaning service come in on the last day and the cost is billed to the person renting the home. Others may have cleaners come by periodically. Find out what the housekeeping schedule is and who is responsible for the bill. Also find out on what condition the property must be returned with your full deposit to be refunded.
有些租赁协议有在最后一天要清洁打扫的服务要求，费用由租房人支付。另一些租赁协议可能会定期让清洁工来打扫卫生。弄清楚家政服务的日程表是什么，由谁负责这个帐单。也要弄清楚在何种条件之下，你的房子必须归还，你的押金能够全部退还。

Photograph on day one  租房首日要拍照记录
 To ensure that any existing damage is documented(备有文件记录) and that you aren't blamed for something you haven't done, photograph(拍照) and/or video tape(用录像带记录) the property on the day you arrive.            Make sure you record any problem areas. Do the same thing on your last day. If there is an argument before a mediator(调停者) or a judge later on, this documentation(文件) may come in handy(派上用场). It may even convince the owner not to take you to court（把……告上法庭；起诉某人） in the first place.
为了保证任何现存的损坏都有底可查(或备有文件记录)，以及保证你不必为你未做的事情负责(或被责怪)，第一天来的时候，就拍下或录下房子里的一切。        确保你记录了每一处有问题的地方。在你离去的最后一日也做同样的事情。如果随后发生纠纷，在仲裁人或法官面前有争执，这个文件可能会派上用场。它甚至可以说服房主从一开始就不会把你告上法庭。

Get a contact number取得联系电话
It’s great that you’ve gotten the keys to your rented home and that you’re ready to enjoy your life here, but make sure to get the agent’s or landlord’s phone number just in case there is a problem like a burst pipe or a loss of electricity. You’ll be glad you did!
很了不起，你已经得到了租屋的钥匙，而且你已准备在这里好好享受你的生活了。但，要确保你得到了中介或房东的电话号码，仅仅以防出现，类似水管爆裂或断电之类的问题。那时，你会很高兴你有他们的电话号码！

Section C  How to Sign a Lease Agreement  如何签订租赁合同
Directions:  In this section, there is a passage with some words missing. The passage will be read three times. You are required to put the missing words in the order of the numbered blanks according to what you hear.
Entering into(讨论，进入) a lease agreement is not something that is done lightly. You need to be deliberate when you sign a lease agreement because you are committing yourself and your finances for a period of time. Understanding the significance  of a lease agreement underscores（强调） the procedure you need to follow when you sign that type of contract. By following the recommended  procedure  you are in the best position of not only understanding all elements of a lease agreement, but also of  ensuring  the contract is in your best interests
达成一份租赁合同协议，并不是一件容易的事。当你签署一份租赁协议时，你需要深思熟虑，因为这意味着，在一段时期内，你要让自己和你的财务状况承担责任和义务。理解租赁合同的意义，它强调了你签署那种合同时需要遵循的程序。遵循了推荐的程序步骤，你不仅能了解一份租赁合同中的所有要素，还能确保合同能让你处于最佳利益。
Arrange to have a copy of（一份，一本） the lease agreement delivered   to（交付） you at least a day or two in advance of signing the document. Many people make the mistake of not taking a look at the document until the very time that it is signed. You cannot appropriately review a document like a lease agreement  “on the spot”.
在签署文件前，至少提前一到两天的时间，安排把一份租赁合同副本发给你。许多人都犯了这样的错误：（那就是）直到要签署文件的那个时候才看一看文件。你不可能“当场”适当地审查一份像租赁合同这样的文件。

 Review  the basic elements of the lease agreement to ensure that they are in line with what you agreed to orally（口头地）. These points include the monthly rent, the term of the agreement, and  penalties  for failing to pay rent in a timely manner.
     检查租赁协议的基本要素，以确保它们符合你们口头上同意的协议内容。这些要点包括月租金、协议条款，以及未能及时支付租金的处罚。

Verify the date listed in the lease agreement that you are entitled to(有权享有，有…的资格) take possession of the property. Make sure the contract includes a provision to penalize the landlord if the premises are not accessible on the date promised.
核实在租赁合同中列出的，你有资格占有该房子的日期。确保合同中包含了一项条款，规定如果在约定的日期，租赁的房子不能使用，就要对房东进行处罚。

Examine the provision  of the lease agreement pertaining to changes and alterations you can make to the premises.
检查租赁合同中，你能对房屋作出改变和变更的有关条款。

 Confirm  that the lease agreement contains the renewal provision agreed during discussions pertaining to the contract.
确认租赁协议中包含了，在合同讨论期间，双方同意的续约（续签）条款。

 Schedule  a specific time when you and the other party both can be present to sign the lease agreement simultaneously.
计划安排一个具体时间，以便你和对方都可以同时出席并签署租赁协议的。

Sign two original copies of the lease agreement so that both you and the other party have one for reference and records.
签署两份租赁协议原件，以便你和对方都有一份原件供参考和记录。




Unit Eight  Invitation for Bid and Submission of Bids (1) 招标和投标（1）
Section A   Some Key Points in Bids 招标书中的一些要点
Directions:  In this section, you will hear a short passage about some tips for an invitation for bids. Write down those tips based on what you hear. You can read the list of words at the back of the unit, which will give you some help with the exercise.
The purpose of this guide is to provide further assistance by offering practical help with writing and organizing good, clear invitations for bids (IFBs). The preparation of a good IFB is the most important and the most difficult step in the procurement process. Effort spent at the outset to develop an organized, well-developed IFB will maximize your chances of obtaining quality supplies or services at the lowest cost and minimize the possibility of a bid protest. This guide provides general tips, a model IFB.   Wherever possible, useful sample language has been included. This model is not the only way to organize an IFB, but is provided as one suggested format.
本指南目的，就是要提供更多的帮助，为人们在撰写和编制表达良好﹑结构清晰的招标书/招标邀请函(IFBs)，提供切实可行的帮助。在采购过程中，准备一份良好的招标书是其中最重要也是最困难的一个步骤。从一开始就努力编制一份安排有序﹑内容完备良好的招标文件，将使你最大限度，以最低的成本获得优质的供应或服务，并最大限度减少投标抗议产生的可能性。本指南提供一般（通用）提示，一个模板标书。只要有可能，已包括了有用的样本语言。该模板不是编制招标书的唯一方法，而只是提供一种建议格式。
General Tips一般提示
1.Use separate headings. Since too many elements are involved in IFB, you will make tenders confused if you don’t draft your IFB in separate headings.
请使用单独的标题。由于招标书中涉及太多元素，如果你不用单独的标题中来起草你的招标书，你会让投标人困惑（标书含糊不清）。
2. Make information of your IFB consistent. It is especially important to check special terms and conditions of a particular procurement against your jurisdiction’s standard terms and conditions to ensure there are no conflicting provisions.
要让招标书信息保持前后一致。尤其重要的是，要检查某项招标采购书的特殊条款和条件，以免跟你权限范围内的标准条款和条件相冲突。
3. Use precise terms and unambiguous wording. If the contractor must provide something, use the words “must” or “shall”, not the words  “should” or “may”.
请使用精确的术语和明确的措辞。如果承包商必须提供什么东西，务必使用“必须”或“要/应当”的字眼，而不是“应该”或“可以”。

4. Avoid vague phrases. For example, for a landscaping contract, your bid specifications should state specifics such as  “cut grass once weekly” or “cut grass whenever it exceeds 3 inches on average”, not  “cut grass as necessary”.
避免使用含糊的词语。例如，对于一份园林绿化合同，你的标书规格说明应该陈述出细节详情，比如“每周割草一次” 或“无论何时平均高度超过3英寸时割草”，而不是“必要时割草”。
5. Do not use overly technical language. Although technical language emphasizes precision and efficiency of communication, a side effect of this is obvious, that is, a higher threshold for comprehensibility will give obstacles to those who are not quite familiar with this kind of language.
不要过度使用技术性语言。尽管技术性语言强调了沟通的精确性和效率，但该副作用是显而易见的，即这一要求增加了对术语理解（可懂性）的较高门槛，会给那些不太熟悉这种语言的人带来障碍。
6. Pay attention to the timing of your contract awards. Issue your IFB when the potential for competition and lower prices is the greatest, and give vendors sufficient time to prepare bids.
注意合同授予的时机。当潜在的竞争最激烈，价格相对最低时，发布你们的招标书，并给供应商充足的时间准备标书。
7. Provide accurate details. Provide sufficiently detailed specifications to ensure that you will get what you want at a fair price, while omitting unnecessary details that unduly limit competition.
请提供准确的细节。提供充分详细的规范，以确保您能以公平的价格获得你想要的东西，同时省略过度限制竞争的那些不必要细节。

Section C   Elements of an Invitation for Bids（招标书的组成要素）
This passage identifies the minimum elements of an invitation for bids when  procuring  goods or services using the competitive sealed bidding procedure. This chapter also identifies strategies for detecting and preventing  collusive  bidding.
这篇文章确定了，在采用竞争性密封投标程序中，采购货物或服务时，招标邀请函（招标书）的最低要素。本章还确定了发现和防止发生 围标（串通招标投标）的策略。
The competitive sealed bidding procedure formally begins when the purchasing agent issues an invitation for bids. The invitation for bids defines the responsibilities of the vendor as well as those of the county, describes the requirements for performance, and identifies the  criteria  against which the vendor will be measured.   At a minimum, the invitation for bids must contain： 
当采购(商)方发出招标邀请函时，竞争性密封投标程序正式开始了。招标邀请函定义了供应商以及所属郡县的职责，描述了性能要求，并确定了供应商将被衡量的标准。最低限度上（最起码），招标邀请函必须包含:
1.A description of the goods or services to be procured.
对要采购产品或服务的描述
2. The contractual terms and conditions applicable to the procurement, or incorporate those terms and conditions by  reference.
适用于采购的合同条款和条件，或将这些条款和条件列入参考。
3. A statement of any requisite qualifications of the potential  vendors. 
对潜在供应商们任何必要资格的陈述说明。
4.A statement describing the criteria by which each bid will be  evaluated.   
描述每一标被评估标准的陈述说明。
The following sections discuss in detail each of the elements of an invitation for bids.    The level of detail contained in an invitation for bids depends in part on the nature of the  particular  procurement.
下面的章节详细讨论了招标邀请函的每一个要素。招标中所包含的细节程度部分取决于特别采购的性质。
The Nine Elements of an Invitation for Bids  招标邀请函的九大要素
1.The introduction  介绍部分
2. General information  基本信息
3. Description of the goods or services to be procured
对项目欲采购产品或服务的描述
4. The minimum qualifications of a vendor 供应商（投标人）最低资质
5.  Contractual  terms and conditions  合同条款条件
6. Minimum standards of a bid  投标最低标准
7. Required elements of a bid  投标必备要素
8.  Submittal  requirements  服从条款（提交文件要求）
9. Evaluation criteria  评估标准


Unit Nine  Invitation for Bid and Submission of Bid (2)
Section A   Some Tips for Submission of Bid
Directions:  In this section, you will hear a short passage about ten tips for submitting better bids. Write down those tips based on what you hear. You can read the list of words at the back of the unit, which will give you some help with the exercise.
Putting together a winning bid proposal, or even a competitive one, takes knowledge and skill. It’s a bit more complicated than just putting some numbers together and hoping for the best.    Good bid preparation requires a lot of time and effort and involves everything from reading and fully understanding the plans and specifications to accurately estimating costs for labor, materials and equipment.    Making even the smallest mistake can mean the difference between submitting a winning bid and missing out on a profitable project.  Here are top 10 tips for submitting better bids.
组织编制一份中标投标方案，甚至是一个有竞争力的投标方案，都需要知识和技能。这比只把一些数字整合放在一起，然后希望得到最好的结果要复杂得多。良好的投标准备需要花费大量的时间和精力，内容涵盖一切，包括从阅读和充分理解计划和规范开始，到精确估算劳动力、材料和设备的成本。    即使犯最小的错误，也可能意味着要么提交一份中标的标书，要么错过一个盈利项目之间的巨大差异。以下是提交更好标书的10大技巧。

1.Select the right projects to bid 选择正确的项目竞标
You don’t have to bid on every job you come across. Winning jobs your company can’t adequately perform can be just as costly as not winning them. Remember, it is never too late to abandon a bid you are working on. For example, let’s say you have purchased plans, attended the pre-bid meeting, done your takeoffs and started taking subcontractor pricing. Once you start crunching the numbers you realize that your company won’t make a reasonable profit if you were to win the contract. The best thing to do is dump it and move on to the next project.
你不必投标你遇到的每一个工作对象。赢得你的公司不能胜任（充分执行）的工作，可能和没有赢得它们一样代价高昂( 或如果赢得了工程，但你们公司又无法胜任，这样所付出的代价和没有赢得这些工程是一样大的)。记住，放弃你正在从事的投标工作永远不会太迟。例如，比如说，你已购买投标计划，参加了标前会，完成了你的工程估算而且开始考虑给分包商的定价。一旦你开始计算这些数字，当你意识到，如果你要赢得该合同，你的公司将不会赚取合理的利润。最好的办法就是放弃它，然后转向（移向）下一个项目。
2.Visit the site and attend pre-bid meetings   参观现场 和 出席标前会
Having a good understanding of the existing site conditions can eliminate problems down the line if you were awarded a project.    Unique site conditions like limited accessibility or a location that would require additional costs on items like transportation, equipment, material storage and labor could exist.      Many times a pre-bid meeting will be held at the construction site or a site visit will be held directly following a pre-bid meeting.     
Pre-bid meetings(标前会) are held in order for the project team to answer questions regarding plans and specifications, site conditions and specific project details. Failing to attend a pre-bid meeting means you miss out on the best opportunity to get clarification on the requirements of the project.
如果你中标了一个项目，对现有场地条件的充分理解可以彻底消除各种问题。  独特的场地条件：如特殊环境，或项目需要花费额外费用的地理位置，比如在运输﹑设备﹑材料储存和劳动力方面，可能存在。    经常，标前会将在施工现场多次举行，或者标前会后就直接进行了工地现场参观。     
标前会举行的目的就是给项目团队来回答有关方案计划和规范、现场条件和具体项目细则等相关问题。未能参加标前会意味着，你错失了对该项目要求获得澄清(或招标说明)的最佳机会。
3.Seek clarification寻求澄清(或招标说明)
When preparing a bid you need to do your due diligence to ensure that you have all the related information, that the information is accurate and that you have a complete understanding of the information.    This means fully reviewing the plans and specifications to determine everything required to bid the project and complete the work.       Be aware that there are typically cut-off dates in place for questions to be submitted. This allows for any changes to the plans or specifications to be made and for any addenda to be issued to the bidders. Making assumptions is no way to submit a winning bid.
在准备一份标书时，你需要尽职尽责工作以确保你掌握了所有相关信息，该信息是准确的，你对该信息充分了解。   这意味着仔细检查计划方案和规格参数，以确定项目投标和完成工作所需的一切内容。     请注意，通常都有一个适当地提交各种问题的截标日期。   这允许可以对计划方案或规格参数做出任何更改，以及向投标人发出任何补遗书。 做假设是绝不可能提交一份会中标的标书的。

4.Perform accurate takeoffs and measurements 进行准确的（工程量）估算和测量
Take the time to fully review the plans and specifications to determine accurate measurements and takeoffs.    This will result in correct construction costs when calculating your bid（报价）.     Inaccurate measurements will cause you to miscalculate the amount of building materials and labor needed to complete the job which in turn will lead to either over- or underestimating your construction costs.    Using the right units of measure is also important when calculating your bid. Using square feet when you should have used square yards or vice versa can drastically affect your estimated costs.
花时间去全面检查一下计划方案和规格参数，以确定准确的测量和工程量估算。   这将使你在计算报价时得出准确的建筑成本。测量不准确将导致你误算完成工作所需要的建材和劳动力总量，反过来，它将会导致要么高估要么低估你的建筑成本。  当计算报价时，使用正确的计量单位也很重要。在该使用平方码时，你使用了平方英尺，或反之亦然，都会大大地影响您的估算成本。

5.Avoid arithmetic errors避免运算错误
Errors with your math can have a devastating impact on your bid.   Arithmetic errors can result in your bid being under or over the actual cost of completing the job.   Manual calculations can easily result in arithmetic errors.   Always use a calculator or some type of construction bid software to ensure that your calculations are accurate.     If you are using bid software or a calculator errors can typically be attributed to not inputting your numbers correctly.   If you are using a spreadsheet like Excel to calculate costs check that your formulas are correct, always double-check your math to make sure that all you numbers and calculations are correct.
算数错误会对你的出价产生毁灭性的影响。运算错误可能导致你的出价低于或高于完成工作的实际成本。人工计算很容易导致运算错误。始终使用计算器或某种类型的建筑投标软件，以确保您的计算是准确的。如果你在使用投标软件或计算器，错误通常可以归结为没有正确输入您的数字。如果你使用Excel之类的电子表格来计算成本，检查你的公式是正确的，始终要反复检查你的数学，以确保你所有的数字和计算都是正确的。

6.Evaluate subcontractors & subcontractor pricing评估分包商和分包商的定价
Getting subcontractor pricing can be complicated. You want competitive prices from your subcontractors but you also want some assurance that they can perform the work required.    This is true whether it is a subcontractor you are using for the first time or one that you have worked with for years.    One solution is to set up a prequalification process for subcontractors who wish to work with you.   At a minimum, you should get bids from at least three different companies for each trade you will need to subcontract out work for to ensure you are getting competitive prices.  Carefully review and evaluate every subcontractor bid to make sure that the prices quoted are complete and accurate.
获得分包商定价可能很复杂。你想从你的分包商处获得有竞争力的价格，但你也想要得到一些能够确保他们完成所需工作的保证。不管这是你第一次合作的分包商，还是你合作多年的分包商，都是事实。  有一个解决方案就是，给希望同你合作的分包商建立一套资格预审程序。 最起码，你应该从每个行当，这个你需要将工作分包出去的行当中，至少获得三个不同公司的报价，以确保你获得有竞争力的价格。仔细检查和评估每一个分包商的报价，以确保所报价格是完整和准确的。

7.Identify and manage risks识别和管理风险
Every construction project comes with its own unique set of risks. Once you’ve identified the potential risks, you need to analyze and evaluate each one individually so that they can be properly managed.   Take into account the probability of each identified risk and the impact it can have on the project.   A low probability risk with a low impact might be easy to mitigate. Identifying and evaluating possible risks associated with a project when preparing a bid will make you better prepared to handle a situation when something goes wrong.
每一个建设项目都有其独特的风险。一旦你识别发现了潜在的风险，就需要逐个分析和评估它们，以便对它们进行恰当的管理。 要考虑每个被识别风险的概率，以及它对项目可能产生的影响。低影响的低概率风险可能很容易减轻风险。在准备投标时，识别并评估与项目相关的可能风险，会使你在出现问题时更好地处理问题。
8.Labor costs人工成本
Accurately estimating labor costs can be one of the most difficult aspects to preparing your bid. To determine your labor costs you have to factor in hourly wage rates with the number of man-hours a specific task will take to complete. You also have to take into account the productivity and experience of your workers. Employee turnover, absences and injuries can all affect your actual labor costs.  More experienced workers may be able to complete tasks quickly which would reduce the number of man-hours needed, but you will have to pay a higher rate for their services. Workers with less experience will require more man-hours to complete a job but you can pay those workers a lower wage. Wage rates can vary greatly from state to state and even from county to county. It is important to understand what, if any, wage rates apply to the project you are bidding in order to incorporate those rates into calculating your labor costs.
准确的估计人工成本，可能是你在准备报价时最困难的一个方面。为了确定你的人工成本，你必须把小时工资率（工资率，是指单位时间内的劳动价格）算入到完成一项具体任务需要的工时数中。你还应该考虑你的工人们的生产效率和经验。员工离职率﹑缺勤和工伤都会影响你实际的人工成本。 经验丰富的工人可能会更快完成工作，从而减少所需工作小时数（工时），但你要为他们的服务支付更高的工资。经验不足的工人需要更多的工时来完成工作，但你可以付给他们低工资。工资率从州到州，甚至从县到县，差别很大。 重要的是，你要搞清楚，假如有的话，适用于你正在投标项目的工资率是多少，以便于把这些费率计算入你的人工成本当中。

9.Materials and equipment costs材料和设备成本
Costs for building materials and supplies can change rapidly and can vary greatly in different parts of the country. If specialty materials are required that you aren’t familiar with you shouldn’t assume that the cost is comparable to similar items. Your best bet is to call around to local suppliers to get up-to-date costs for materials and delivery（传送，传递，交付）.
建材和补给用品的成本变化迅速，全国各地变化很大。如果需要你不熟悉的特殊材料，你不应该理所当然地认为成本和类似的东西差不多。你的最佳办法就是四处探访(四处打电话去了解情报)当地供应商去了解最新的建材和运输成本。
When putting a bid together you need to make sure that you have all the necessary equipment needed to perform the work.  This may mean you have to rent or purchase additional equipment. Even if your company owns all the equipment needed you need to make sure that it isn’t already allocated for use at another jobsite and that no major maintenance （maintenance维修，维护，保持）or repairs are scheduled that would take the equipment offline（offline，脱机，离线） for an extended amount of time. Make sure that the equipment is in good working order（working order正常运行状态） and operating at peak performance which might otherwise cause delays in your construction schedule.
当准备编制标书时，你需要确保你拥有完成工作所需的所有必需设备。这可能意味着你必须租用或额外购买设备。即使你们公司拥有一切所需设备，你也需要确保他们没被分配到其他工地，也没有会让设备脱机一段时间的大的养护或维修计划。确保设备正常运行，并且在最佳状态下工作，否则可能会造成你的施工进度延期。

10.Incomplete bid forms and documents不完整的投标格式(投标函)和标书
Failing to fully complete the bid form and submit all required documents is a surefire way to get what might otherwise be a winning bid rejected. Required documents and paperwork can be anything from bid bonds*(投标保证金)  to acknowledging receipt(收据;回执) of any addenda(补遗书). A good way to ensure that you have all the required paperwork for your bid is to use a checklist as you prepare your bid and then go back and double-check to make sure that everything is included.
未能充分完成投标函和递交一切所需文件，一定会让（surefire一定会成功）那些原本可以中标的标书被拒绝。所需的文件和文书可以是从投标保证金到补遗书收据（回执）（acknowledging receipt回执）之类的任何文件。确保你具备所有要求文书的一个好办法就是，在你准备标书时使用一个清单，并且之后回头再检查核实一遍，以确保一切都包括在内。
There are a few other requirements that go along with preparing your bid that can get your bid rejected if you don’t comply with(遵从) them or simply overlook(忽略) them. The first is to get prequalified(预审合格的) to bid a project when it is required. The second is to attend all mandatory(强制性的) pre-bid meeting and site visits. The third and most important of these is submitting your bid by the due(预期的) date and time. All of these requirements will be clearly stated in the bid.
还有一些其他要求伴随着你准备标书，如果你不遵从它们或干脆忽略它们的话，你的标书可能会被拒绝。第一，投标项目前要获得预审合格，如果这是必须的话。第二，是要参加所有强制的标前会和现场参观。第三，也是最重要的一点，是要在截标日期和时间前递交你的标书。所有这些要求都将在标书中清楚地阐明。

Section C  Process for Submitting a Tender Bid 递标的过程
Directions:  In this section, there is a short passage with some words missing. The passage will be read three times. You are required to put the missing words in the order of the numbered blanks according to what you hear.
Once you have viewed the property details, and done the recommended site visit, you are ready to submit a bid. View the tender submission criteria below, prior to submitting your bid.
一旦您查看了该物业的细则(详细信息)，并完成了推荐的现场参观，您就可以准备提交投标书了。请在提交您的标书之前，看一看以下投标标准：
Submission Criteria投标标准
Tender Bids Must：  竞(投)标标书必须：

— Be  signed  and indicate the “Tender No.”    签署并注明“招标号”。
—  Quote  the total amount of the bid being placed on the property.报出置于物业上的出价总金额。
— Be accompanied by a money order, certified cheque, or bank draft made payable to the  “Minister of Finance” in the amount of 10 percent of the total bid.
内附有邮政汇票、保付支票或支付给““财政部（长）””的银行汇票，金额为总报价的10%。
— Be placed in a sealed envelope clearly marked with the  “Tender No.”and  addressed  to 440 King Street, 5th Floor, Room 526, King Tower, Kings Place, Fredericton, N.B., E3B 5H8. 
（(投)标标书）要放在一个清楚注明了“招标号”的密封信封中，然后寄往（加拿大）新不伦瑞克省，弗雷德里克顿市，国王广场，国王塔，国王大街440号，五楼，526室。(邮编) E3B 5H8.。
— Be received on or before 2：00 p.m.(local time), on the date of closing, at which time a Public Tender Opening will take place.
 在截止日期下午2点或2点之前收到标书（在当地时间），届时将举行公开开标。
Additional Information： 附加信息：
—  Failure to  comply  with the tender submission criteria shall result in the tender being rejected.
如果不遵守投标标准，标书将被拒绝。
—  All  surplus  property is sold on an  “as is, where is” basis and the Province will make no warranty whatsoever with regard to title.
所有剩余物业都按“原封不动”的原则出售，（新不伦瑞克）本省对物业所有权不作任何担保。
—  The purchaser will be responsible for the payment of H.S.T., all legal fees and any required  survey  costs. 
买方将负责支付统一销售税（H.S.T.）﹑所有法律费用和任何必要的调查费用。（H.S.T. 指Harmonized Sales Tax，国外发票中经常使用的“统一销售税”）
—  The highest, or any tender, may not  necessarily  be accepted.
最高投标，或者任何投标，都不一定会被接受。
—  Bidders are encouraged to  inspect  the property prior to placing a tender bid as the successful bidder’s 10 percent bid deposit is non-refundable.
鼓励投标人在发出标书前，对物业进行检查，因为中标人10%的投标保证金是不可退还的。
All unsuccessful tender bid deposits will be returned once the tender has been awarded.
一旦授予竞标（中标），所有未中标的投标保证金，将一律退还。


Unit Ten  Site Inspection (1) 现场考察（1）
Section A  Some Tips for Site Inspection
Directions:  In this section, you will hear a passage about eight tips for site inspection. Write down those tips based on what you hear. You can read the list of words at the back of the unit, which will give you some help with the exercise.
Beyond all doubt, any overseas engineering project, generally linked to the construction and maintenance of local infrastructure, surely will draw particular attention of different organizations from the local government, the local enterprises, the diplomats, the native residents and the native press to the domestic government and the top management of the company.   Therefore, site inspections, contributing a lot to the smooth running of the project when successfully handled, are very common and frequent in daily routine. Here are some helpful tips for the young engineers who want to gain experiences in hosting site inspections.
毋庸置疑(毫无疑问)，任何一个与当地基础设施紧密相关的海外工程建筑与维护工程项目，肯定会引起当地政府、当地企业、外交官、本地居民和媒体、国内政府以及公司上层管理部门等各级组织的特别关注。因此，现场考察(工地视察)，处理成功时将非常有助于项目的平稳运行，它在日常工作中是非常常见和频繁的。下面给在接待实地考察（现场考察）中欲获取经验的年轻工程师们提供一些有用小贴士。 
1.Remain calm 保持冷静
Your first reaction might be panic, but don’t, no matter who you are going to cope with. It is OK to be nervous, but remember that you can always be tested and honored by any inspections with fully-prepared management or consultants.    It’s a good idea to conduct internal inspection on a routine basis and to have various members of the sites’ team participate so that they understand what may be expected of them during a real inspection.   Another knack to keep calm is to dress properly, speak appropriately and answer questions directly.
你的第一反应可能是恐慌，但不管你要应付谁，都不要恐慌。紧张是可以的，但请记住，有了准备充分的管理或顾问，你就可以随时接受检查测试和接受荣誉。定期进行内部检查是不错的主意，让现场团队的各类成员都参加，这样，到了真的工地视察时，他们就知道自己应该做什么了。保持冷静的另一个诀窍是穿着得体，说话得体，回答问题直接。  
2.Identify the lead person  确定负责人
Communicate to the inspector that a certain person will be the overall contact during the inspection. The key individual will be generally responsible for dealing with the inspector, providing follow-up information, and filling the necessary internal reports/documentation associated with the inspection.    The office administrator or secretary and others in the front office should be informed of a set procedure to follow and whom to contact when an inspector arrives. Also, have a back-up person in place because you never know when you might need them.
与检查员沟通说明：在考察过程中，某个人将是总联络人。该关键人物将负责与检查员打交道，提供后续信息，并填写与检查相关的必要的内部报告/文件。  办公室主任或秘书以及前台的其他工作人员应被告知一套要遵循的接待程序，以及当检查员到达时和谁联系等事宜。另外，要有一个后备人员(备用人选)随时待命，因为你永远不知道你何时可能会需要他们。

3.Have an expeditious review  进行快速审查
Most regulations and guidance will stipulate that expeditious review of records and documents should be available. This means that you cannot leave the inspector in the front lobby. If you need to call in an external resource, it’s always a good idea to do that before you head to the lobby to meet the inspector.      Further, explain to the inspector that someone else will be assisting, if that’s the case.    Kick the inspection off with a “kick-off” meeting to establish the Who, Why, What, and Where that the inspector is expecting to accomplish.
大部分规章制度和工地检查指南都规定必须准备好各种记录和文件的快速流览资料(供审查)，这就意味着你不能将视察官员晾在大厅(留在前厅)。如果你需要外援(调用外部资源)，在去前厅见视察官员之前就做好。   此外，向检查员解释，如果是这样的话，有其他人会来协助。   在开始考察前开个“启动会议”，确定检查员期望完成的检查内容:人员、原因、检查内容、检查地点。

4.Plan the inspection tour 安排视察之行
Once the inspector is identified and the aim of the inspection is figured out, make a clear plan of where to go and what to show specifically if the inspector would like to take your advice.  If it not the case, just respect the inspector’s suggestion. For example, the inspector may ask to see equipment in operation. If you are the lead person, just work as a tour guide to take the most desirable direct path to the specific equipment, giving introductions or illustrations when necessary.
一旦确定了检查员身份，弄清楚了检查的目的，就制定一个清晰计划，说明如果检查员愿意接受你的建议，要计划去哪里，特别展示什么东西。如果不是这样，只要尊重检查员的建议就好。例如，检查员可能要求查看操作中的设备。如果你是负责人，就充当导游，走最可取的直达路线到特定设备前，必要时做个介绍或举例说明。
Many large corporations have internal policies to provide only data that is requested; nothing more. So as the lead person, be aware of the privacy and security obligations in the inspection, and not to arrange reception of visits around the confidential room.
许多大公司有内部政策只提供所要求的数据，仅此而已。因此，作为负责人，要注意考察中的隐私和安全义务，不要在机要室周围安排参观接待。

5.Take photos if allowed如果允许请拍照
The inspector might request to take digital photographs of equipment, processes or other related items during the inspection. It is important to know your company’s policy on photography on the site. If you allow photography in the facility, request copies of all photographs in the inspection report.   Remember though, the inspection report is publically available so, if sensitive information/data is contained within the pictures, you may wish for them to be separated and marked confidential, or disallow pictures all together.
在考察期间，检查员可能请求对设备、考察过程或其他相关东西进行数码摄影。了解你们公司对现场的摄影政策很重要。 如果你允许对方对设备摄影，要请求获得考察报告中所有摄影的副本。记住，尽管考察报告是公开的，但如果图片中包含有敏感信息/数据，你可以要求这些照片被分开且标记为机密，或不让所有图片放在一起

6.Document inspection details	对考察细节存档记录
There is an old saying that every one has hindsight. During and after the inspection, take specific and plentiful notes!  Document important things like the inspector, date, equipment visited, and records reviewed.  Also note how you think of what you did and areas for improvement. Taking notes is one way to improve the next time.
俗话说，人人都有事后诸葛亮（后见之明）。在检查期间和检查后，要记下具体且大量详实的笔记！存档记录重要事项，比如检查员、日期、参观的设备和检查的记录。还要记下你是如何看待你所做的和需要改进的地方。记笔记是下一次改进的一种方法。

7.Write inspection summary撰写检查总结
Sum up those objects inspected, note down the inspector’s approvals and dissatisfactions, and dwell on（详细论述）the problems, if there are, exposed in the inspection, the countermeasures of rectification（修改/调整的对策）, and the deadline of rectification as well.  Often the inspector will provide a  “pink copy” of the inspection notes to you. If not, you might want to ask the inspector for a verbal summary（口头总结）  of the inspection. Inspectors will usually describe the good and the improvement areas of your project. Better yet, see if he/she will allow you to copy his/her notes on the photocopier.
对那些检查对象进行总结，记录下检查员满意和不满意的地方，详细记录检查中暴露出的问题，如果有的话，整改对策，和整改的最后期限等等。 检查员有时会提供一份考察笔记的“粉色副本”给你。如果没有，你可以要求检查员对检查进行一个口头总结。检查员通常会描述项目的优点和需改进之处。最好是，看看他/她是否会允许你用复印机复印他/她的笔记。

8.Remember that the inspector is a person记住检查员也是人
Not to forget the inspector is there to do a job and the site inspection shouldn’t be viewed as an us versus them fight. It can be very challenging at times to work with inspectors, but it is important to remember that they are a person too! You probably will be working with this person for months and years to come and the relationship that you form with them does impact inspection conditions when they arrive. Relationships are tough to establish at times, but in the long run, it’s our experience that a strong and open relationship with the site inspector will go a long way（大有帮助） in making an inspection more simplistic and will, overall, benefit the whole project.
不要忘记检查员在那里是在完成一项工作，现场考察不应该被看作是一场“我们对他们”的斗争。有时候，和检查员一起工作是很有挑战性的，但重要的是要记住他们也是一个人！你可能会与这个人一起工作数月数年，你和他们形成的人际关系确实会影响到他们到达时的检查状况。人际关系有时很难建立，但从长远来看，我们的经验是，与现场检查员建立的牢固而开放的人际关系，将会对检查过程更加简单化方面大有帮助，并且，总的来说，对整个项目有利。

Section C   Suggestions of Hosting Site Inspection接待现场考察的建议
Directions:  In this section, there is a passage with some words missing. The passage will be read three times. You are required to put the missing words in the order of the numbered blanks according to what you hear.
The overseas projects, especially the construction of some projects on a large scale, have a direct impact on the economic development of the local country. So the senior officials of the local government will often pay  on-site  visits during the whole project cycle. And the site inspection will be more  frequent  before the general election of the local countries, and some of them are politically-oriented. Here are some suggestions for hosting site inspections.
海外工程，特别是一些大型工程项目的建设，直接影响到当地国家的经济发展。因此，地方政府的高级官员， 在整个项目工程周期中，经常会进行现场参观。在当地国家的大选前，现场考察会变得比较频繁，有些检查是有政治导向的。以下是接待现场考察中的一些建议：
 Sort out  those conventional(常规的) inspection issues and the key issues in different worksites.  Full preparation will never be too much in the reception of site inspection because it can save a lot of  unexpected  embarrassment.
将检查中那些常规出现的问题以及不同工地上的一些关键问题进行分类整理。在迎接施工现场视察时，充分的准备怎么都不为过(永远不会嫌多)，因为这样可以省掉(避免)许多预想不到的麻烦。
Keep warm and thoughtful enough when hosting these kinds of visitors. Generally, briefly introduce the  profile  of the project first. Then show the guests around the site they want to go.
接待这些客人时要足够热情周到。一般来说，先简单介绍一下项目概况。然后带领客人参观他们想去的现场。
Leave the guests a good impression, with the sufficient financial strength, efficient management, and strict supervision, so that quality, quantity and progress of the project will be  guaranteed.
通过充足的资金实力，高效的管理，严格的监督给客人留下一个良好印象，这样，项目的质量、数量和进度将得以保证。
Meanwhile, propose  the difficulties in those external relations in project construction, and express the wish to get help via their influence and effort.  
同时，提出在项目建设中，那些外部关系方面的困难情况，并表达出希望经由他们的影响力和努力获取帮助的愿望。
Invite the guest to a light  meal when mealtime comes when the site inspection is over.
现场考查结束后，就餐时间到时，邀请客人吃一顿便餐。
Dress appropriately, speak formally and keep the pictures, which may turn out to be very important  documents.
穿着得体，说话正式，并保留照片，这些都可能最终成为十分重要的文件。
The above suggestions, though far from enough to deal with various kinds of site inspections with different purposes, will throw a light on general situations.  
上述建议，虽然远不足以应对各种不同目的的现场考察，但仍会阐明一般状况（或对一般状况具有借鉴意义）。





1. If checking in at the ticket counter doesn’t get you a seat toward the front, plead your case on the plane. Flight attendants tend to be more sympathetic about missed connections and will often make a concerted effort to help you avoid one.
2. If the flight has already taken off without you or you know you won’t make it to the gate on time, get on the phone with the airline immediately. They should reschedule you on the next flight at no cost if the connection time was unreasonably brief.
3. Banks play a role as financial intermediaries to help channel funds from savers to borrowers.
4. To avoid the situation that the loan cannot be recovered, banks demand proper security or collateral when advancing loans.
5. A deposit means bank’s debt to the depositor; a banknote means bank’s debt to the bearer of the note; loans and overdraft mean bank’s debt to itself.
6. If you don’t have an overseas rental experience, like many firsts in life, your first rental lease can be a super demanding task.
7. The best way to get a feel for an area is to visit and have a wander around on foot. If you’re not sure where to start, your first goal should be to nail down your destination and the approximate timing of your trip.
8. Being a tenant who doesn’t pay on time is the best way to ensure your landlord or agent won’t go out of their way to help you.
9. Effort spent at the outset to develop an organized, well-developed IFB will maximize your chances of obtaining quality supplies or services at the lowest cost and minimize the possibility of a bid protest.
10. It is especially important to check special terms and conditions of a particular procurement against your jurisdiction’s standard terms and conditions to ensure there are no conflicting provisions.
11. Issue your IFB when the potential for competition and lower prices is the greatest, and give vendors sufficient time to prepare bids.
12. Provide sufficiently detailed specifications to ensure that you will get what you want at a fair price, while omitting unnecessary details that unduly limit competition.
13. Winning jobs your company can’t adequately perform can be just as costly as not winning them.
14. Be aware that there are typically cut-off dates in place for questions to be submitted. This allows for any changes to the plans or specifications to be made and for any addenda to be issued to the bidders.
15. A low probability risk with a low impact might be easy to mitigate.
16. Make sure that the equipment is in good working order and operating at peak performance which might otherwise cause delays in your construction schedule.
17. Beyond all doubt, any overseas engineering project, generally linked to the construction and maintenance of local infrastructure, surely will draw particular attention of different organizations from the local government, the local enterprises, the diplomats, the native residents and the native press to the domestic government and the top management of the company.
18. It’s a good idea to conduct internal inspection on a routine basis and to have various members of the sites’ team participate so that they understand what may be expected of them during a real inspection.
19. Most regulations and guidance will stipulate that expeditious review of records and documents should be available. This means that you cannot leave the inspector in the front lobby. If you need to call in an external resource, it’s always a good idea to do that before you head to the lobby to meet the inspector.
20. Kick the inspection off with a “kick-off” meeting to establish the Who, Why, What, and Where that the inspector is expecting to accomplish.



Difficult sentences
Unit 2
1.Short airport connections can be a blessing, but only if you actually make your flight.
能够在短时间内顺利转机当然是非常幸运的事，但前提是你能赶上你的航班。
2.If you know you’re facing a tight connection and you’ve booked your flight in advance, reserve a aisle seat toward the front of the plane.
如果你已经提前订好了航班，并且知道转机行程紧张，那就定个机舱前部靠走道的座位。
3.If checking in at the ticket counter doesn’t get you a seat toward the front, plead your case on the plane. Flight attendants tend to be more sympathetic about missed connections and will often make a concerted effort to help you avoid one.
如果到柜台办理登机没能订到靠前的座位，可在登机后提出请求。乘务员往往会比较同情误机的情况，他们常常会帮你协调以避免误机。
4.Look for the airport’s baggage carousels if you’ve checked a bag. And if this connecting airport is your first entry point on an international trip, map out customs and immigration areas as well.
如果你托运了行李就要确定机场行李传送带的位置。如果这个转乘机场是你此次国际旅程的第一站，那么还要在地图上找出海关和入境的位置。
 5.Options for safely sleeping at the airport are only as limited as your imagination.
在机场安全过夜的办法有很多，只看你想不想得到罢了。
6.As a rule of thumb, on domestic routes, you need a minimum of 45 minutes between flights. That’s because you don’t have to go through security, customs, and immigration.
一般来说，在国内航线上航班之间至少需要45分钟的中转时间，因为你不必经过安检、海关和入境检查。
7.Before booking, verify that you’ll have a layover at least 2 hours in order to go through the obligatory airport transactions. Give yourself even more time if you’ve checked a bag that needs to be rechecked post customs.
订票之前，要确保你至少有两个小时的逗留时间来通过必要的转机手续。如果过了海关后包裹还需重新托运，你就需要留出更多的时间。
 8.Missing a connecting flight is easier than you think. Gate doors typically close 10 to 30 minutes prior to a flight’s scheduled departure. Once closed, the airplane door won’t open to board a late passenger.
 错过转乘航班比你想象的更加容易。登机口通常在航班的预定起飞时间的前10到30分钟关闭。一旦关上，机舱门不会再为迟到的乘客打开。
9.If the flight has already taken off without you or you know you won’t make it to the gate on time, get on the phone with the airline immediately. They should reschedule you on the next flight at no cost if the connection time was unreasonably brief.
如果你还未登机飞机就起飞了或者你知道你已经无法按时赶到登机口了，立刻给航空公司打电话。如果转机完全来不及了，他们就应该免费为你安排下一班飞机。
10.If checking in at the ticket counter doesn’t get you a seat toward the front, plead your case on the plane. Flight attendants tend to be more sympathetic about missed connections and will often make a concerted effort to help you avoid one.
如果到售票台办理登机手续都没能订到靠前的座位，可在登机后提出请求。乘务员往往会比较同情错失转机的情况，他们常常会同心协力帮助你避免。

Unit 3
1. They then use those deposits and borrowed funds (liabilities of the bank) to make loans or to purchase securities (assets of the bank). Banks make these loans to businesses, other financial institutions, individuals, and governments (that need the funds for investments or other purposes). Interest rates provide the price signals for borrowers, lenders, and banks.
译文：然后，他们利用这些存款和借入的资金（银行的负债）来发放贷款或购买证券（银行资产）。银行贷款给企业、其它金融机构、个人、政府（他们需要资金用于投资或其他用途）。利率给借款人、贷款人和银行三方提供价格信号。
2. Generally, the value of security or collateral is equal to the amount of loan. This is done mainly with a view to recover the loan money by selling the security in the event of non-refund of the loan. 
译文：一般来说，抵押品的价值等于贷款的数额。这主要是为了在收不回贷款的情况下，可以通过出售担保品来收回贷出的资金。
3. Also, banks advance loans to its customers up to a certain amount through overdrafts, if there are no deposits in the current account. For this, banks demand a security from the customers and charge very high rate of interest.
译文：此外，银行还将贷款发放给活期账户中没有存款的客户，贷款额度由透支额度决定。银行要求客户为此提供担保品并收取高额利息。
 4. A banknote (often known as a bill paper money or simply a note) is a type of negotiable instrument known as a promissory note, made by a bank, payable to the bearer on demand. 
译文：银票（通常称为纸币或钞票）是一种可流通票据，是银行发行的一种期票，见票即付。


Unit 4
1. If you don’t have an overseas rental experience, like many firsts in life, your first rental lease can be a super demanding task.
译文：如果你没有过在国外租房的经历，就像人生中的许多第一次一样，签署第一份租约可能是一项非常费力的任务。
2.The best way to get a feel for an area is to visit and have a wander around on foot. If you’re not sure where to start, your first goal should be to nail down your destination and the approximate timing of your trip.
译文：了解一个地方最好的办法是亲自到其周边走访一下。如果你不知道从哪里开始，你的第一个目标是确定目的地以及大概的时间安排。
3.Whether you are dealing with an agent or a landlord, it’s important to remember you hold the upper hand.
译文：无论和中介还是和房东讨价还价，记住你是占优势的一方是很重要的。
4.It's unlikely most people will end up with a celebrity housemate, good or bad, but little things can make the difference between harmony and torment.
译文：大多数人不太可能总是碰到明星室友（受欢迎的好室友），因为一件小事有可能使室友关系变和谐也有可能使室友关系变紧张(产生和谐和痛苦的区别)，无论是好事还是坏事。
5.Being a tenant who doesn’t pay on time is the best way to ensure your landlord or agent won’t go out of their way to help you. 
译文：成为一个不按时付房租的人, 是让你的房东或中介不给你提供帮助的最好方法。/按时交房租是保证你的房东不遗余力帮助你的最好办法。
6.Keep in mind that the costs involved in air conditioning or heating can be sizable, so be sure to factor those into your budget if the owner has not already included them in the rent. 
译文：记住，空调和取暖的费用是相当高的，如果房主没有把它算在房租里面，你要记得把这些列入到你的预算里面。
7.To ensure that any existing damage is documented and that you aren’t blamed for something you haven’t done, photograph and/or video tape the property on the day you arrive. 
译文：为了保证任何现存的损伤都有案可查以及保证你不必为你未做的事情负责，第一天来的时候，就拍下或录下房子里的一切。

Unit 8
1.It is especially important to check special terms and conditions of a particular procurement against your jurisdiction’s standard terms and conditions to ensure there are no conflicting provisions.	
将某专项采购的专用条款与贵方管辖范围内的标准条款进行对比检查尤为重要，以保证他们之间没有冲突。
2.Although technical language emphasizes precision and efficiency of communication, a side effect of this is obvious, that is, a higher threshold for comprehensibility will give obstacles to those who are not quite familiar with this kind of language.
虽然技术性语言强调交流的精确和有效性，但负面作用也是很明显的，那就是，给不熟悉这种语言的人造成了障碍，使理解门槛提高了。
3.Issue your IFB when the potential for competition and lower prices is the greatest, and give vendors sufficient time to prepare bids.
当潜在竞争最激烈，并且潜在价格最低时，发布招标邀请，同时给供应商足够多的时间准备投标。
4.Provide sufficiently detailed specifications to ensure that you will get what you want at a fair price, while omitting unnecessary details that unduly limit competition.
提供非常详细的说明，确保你能以合理价格获得你想要的，然而，省略那些过于制约竞争的不必要的细节。

Unit 9
1. Good bid preparation requires a lot of time and effort and involves everything from reading and fully understanding the plans and specifications to accurately estimating costs for labor, materials and equipment. 
      做好投标准备工作需要大量的时间和精力，包括阅读和全面了解工程的计划和具体规划, 准确估算劳动力、材料和设备的成本。
2. Once you start crunching the numbers and you realize that your company won’t make a reasonable profit if you were to win the contract, the best thing to do is dump it and move on to the next project.
     一旦你们开始进行大量的数据运算后发现：如果做这个项目，你的公司不能获取合理的利润，最好要做的事是放弃它，去准备下一个项目。
3. Having a good understanding of the existing site conditions can eliminate problems down the line if you were awarded a project. Unique site conditions like limited accessibility or a location that would require additional costs on items like transportation, equipment, material storage and labor could exist.
     如果工程项目中标了，对现存的情况进行全面的了解可以彻底地根除一些问题。可能存在特殊的情况，比如交通不便或者位置不好，这需要付出额外的运输、设备、材料存储以及人工成本。
5. If you are using bid software or a calculator, errors can typically be attributed to not inputting your numbers correctly. If you are using a spreadsheet like Excel to calculate costs, check that your formulas are correct. Always double-check your math to make sure that all you numbers and calculations are correct.
    如果你使用投标软件或计算器，输错数字通常会导致结果错误。如果你使用Excel之类的电子数据表计算成本，要检查你使用的公式是否正确，通常还要复核你的运算过程以保证所有的数字和计算结果都是正确的。
6.It is important to understand what, if any, wage rates apply to the project you are bidding in order to incorporate those rates into calculating your labor costs.
    重要的是，如果有的话，要清楚什么工资标准适用于你正在投标的项目以便于把它并入劳动力成本估算。
7.Even if your company owns all the equipment needed you need to make sure that it isn’t already allocated for use at another jobsite and that no major maintenance or repairs are scheduled that would take the equipment offline for an extended amount of time. 
   即使你的公司拥有需要的所有设备，你也需要确保该设备没有被分配到其他工地使用，并且没有重大维修计划，这些情况会占用设备而使工期延长。
8.A good way to ensure that you have all the required paperwork for your bid is to use a checklist as you prepare your bid and then go back and double-check to make sure that everything is included.
  有一个好方法可以保证你能为投标准备好所有必须的文件：在做投标准备时使用清单，然后回头核对清单并再次检查，确保包括了所需要的一切文件。
9.At a minimum, you should get bids from at least three different companies for each trade you will need to subcontract out work for to ensure you are getting competitive prices.
如果你有生意需要分包出去，那最低限度要有三个不同公司来投标，你才能确保可以获得有竞争力的价格。
 
Unit 10
1.Beyond all doubt, any overseas engineering project, generally linked to the construction and maintenance of local infrastructure, surely will draw particular attention of different organizations from the local government ，the local enterprises, the diplomats, the native residents and the native press to the domestic government and the top mangement of the company.
译文：毋庸置疑，任何一个与当地基础设施紧密相关的建筑及维护工程项目肯定会引起当地政府、当地企业、外交官、本地居民和媒体、国内政府以及公司上层管理部门等各级组织的特别关注。
2.Tip one: Remain calm
Your first reaction might be panic, but don’t, no matter who you are going to cope with! It is ok to be nervous, but remember that you can always be tested and honored by any inspections with fully-prepared management or consultants. It’s a good idea to conduct internal inspection on a routine basis and to have various members of the sites’ team participate so that they understand what may be expected of them during a real inspection. Another knack to keep calm is to dress properly, speak appropriately and answer questions directly.
一：保持冷静              
       你的第一反应可能是恐慌，但不要惊慌，不管你要对付谁！紧张是可以的，但请记住，任何做好了充分准备的管理者或顾问的都可能考验你，也会尊重你。进行例行的内部检查是个不错的主意，让工地团队各部门的员工都参与进来。这样，在真正的考察期间，他们就会知道自己应该怎么做了。保持冷静的另一个诀窍就是穿着合体、谈吐恰当、回答问题直接。

3.Tip two: Identify the lead person
        Communicate to the inspector that a certain person will be the overall contact during the inspection. The key individual will be generally responsible for dealing with the inspector, providing follow-up information, and filling the necessary internal reports/documentation associated with the inspection. The office administrator or secretary and others in the front office should be informed of a set procedure to follow and whom to contact when an inspector arrives. Also, have a back-up person in place because you never know when you might need them.
二：确定一个负责人         
        告诉检查人在检查过程中将有一个人全程陪着他。这个重要人物一般负责与检查人员打交道，提供后续信息，并填写与检查有关的必要的内部报告/文件。应该告知办公室行政长官或秘书及其他人员需要遵循的既定程序以及在检查员到达时该与谁联系。此外，还要在适当的地方安排一个后备人员，因为你永远不知道什么时候可能需要他们。

4.Tip three: Have an expeditious review  
     Most regulations and guidance will stipulate that expeditious review of records and documents should be available. This means that you cannot leave the inspector in the front lobby. If you need to call in an external resource, it’s always a good idea to do that before you head to the lobby to meet the inspector. Further, explain to the inspector that someone else will be assisting, if that’s the case. Kick the inspection off with a ‘kick-off’ meeting to establish the Who, Why, What, and Where that the inspector is expecting to accomplish.
三、快速查阅资料              
        大部分的检查规则和指南规定必须准备好可供快速查阅的记录和文件，这就意味着你不会将检查人员晾在会客厅。如果你需要其他的人来支援，在你去大厅会见检查人员之前就联系好。另外，要向检查员说明会有其他人来协助他们。开一个“启动会议”明确检查者期望检查的人、检查的原因、检查的对象以及检查地点。
5.Tip four: Plan the inspection tour 
        Once the inspector is identified and the aim of the inspection is figured out, make a clear plan of where to go and what to show specifically if the inspector would like to take your advice. If it not the case, just respect the inspector’s suggestion. For example, the inspector may ask to see equipment in operation. If you are the lead person, just work as a tour guide to take the most desirable direct path to the specific equipment, giving introductions or illustrations when necessary.
        Many large corporations have internal policies to provide only data that is requested; nothing more. So as the lead person, be aware of the privacy and security obligations in the inspection, and not to arrange reception of visits around the confidential room.
四：安排检查路线              
         一旦确认了检查人员，并确定了检查的目的，如果检查人员愿意接受你的建议，就明确计划去哪里，看什么。如果不是这样的话，就要尊重检查人员的建议。例如，检查人员可能要求检查运行中的设备。如果你是负责人，就当导游，按设计好的路线检查该设备，必要时做介绍或讲解。              
         许多大公司都有内部规定，只提供需要的数据，没有更多。所以作为负责人，在检查时要注意公司隐私和安全，不要在保密室周围接待访客。

6.Tip five: Take photos if allowed
       The inspector might request to take digital photographs of equipment, processes or other related items during the inspection. It is important to know your company’s policy on photography on the site. If you allow photography in the facility, request copies of all photographs in the inspection report. Remember though, the inspection report is publically available so, if sensitive information/data is contained within the pictures, you may wish for them to be separated and marked confidential – or disallow pictures all together.
五：如果允许的话，请拍照              
        检查人员可能要求在检查过程中拍摄设备、程序或其他相关物品。了解你的公司在摄影方面的规定是很重要的。如果允许拍摄该设施，请复制检查报告中所有照片。但请记住，检查报告是公开可用的，因此，如果图片中有敏感信息/数据，您可以要求他们分离出来并标记为机密——或者完全禁止使用图片。

7.Tip six: Document inspection details
There is an old saying that everyone has hindsight. During and after the inspection, take specific and plentiful notes! Document important things like the inspector, date, equipment visited, and records reviewed. Also note how you think you did and areas for improvement. Taking notes is one way to improve the next time.
六：记录检查细节
        有句古话说人人都有后知后觉。在检查期间和检查之后，请做好详实的记录！记录重要的事情，如检查人员，日期，查看过的设备和查阅过的记录。还要记下你自己的想法和有待改进的地方。做记录是为了下次可以做得更好。
8.Tip seven: Write inspection summary
        Sum up those objects inspected, note down the inspector’s approvals and dissatisfactions, and dwell on the problems, it there are, exposed in the inspection, the countermeasures of rectification, and the deadline of rectification as well. Often the inspector will provide a “pink copy” of the inspection notes to you. If not, you might want to ask the inspector for a verbal summary of the inspection. Inspectors will usually describe the good and the improvement areas of your project. Better yet, see if he/she will allow you to copy his/her notes on the photocopier.
七：写检查总结              
统计检查对象，记录检查人员满意和不满意的地方，详细说明检查中暴露的问题，整改对策，整改期限。检查人员通常会提供检查记录的“粉红的副本”给你。如果没有，你可以要求做口头的总结。检查员通常会描述项目的优点和需要改进的地方。最好看他/她是否允许复印他/她的笔记。
9.Tip eight: Remember that the inspector is a person
       Not to forget the inspector is there to do a job and the site inspection shouldn’t be viewed as an us versus them fight. It can be very challenging at times to work with inspectors, but it is important to remember that they are a person too! You probably will be working with this person for months and years to come and the relationship that you form with them does impact inspection conditions when they arrive. Relationships are tough to establish at times, but in the long run, it’s our experience that a strong and open relationship with the site inspector will go a long way in making an inspection more simplistic and will, overall, benefit the whole project.
八：记住检查员是人              
      不要忘记检查员在那里是进行工作，不应把现场检查看作是我们与他们的对抗。与检查员一起工作有时是非常有挑战性的，但重要的是要记住他们也是一个人！你可能会在未来数月或数年里与此人一起工作，与他们形成的关系确实会影响他们到达时的检查情况。有时建立关系很难，但从长远来看，我们的经验是，与现场检查员建立牢固和坦诚的关系将使检查更加简单，并且总体上使整个项目受益。
